Automatic Grasp Planning using Shape Primitives
***********************************************

* **Authors:** Andrew Miller, Steffen Knoop, Henrik Christensen and Peter Allen
* **Conference:** International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) 2003

Introduction
============
Automatic grasp planning is hard because of the high-dimensional 
search space manipulators usually have (i.e. Barret Hand: 
6 Extrinsic DOF + 4 Intrinsic DOF = 10!)

In this work, the authors propose to simplify the possible configurations
by using grasp preshapes. This because:

* Humans often simplify the task by selecting only a few prehensile postures, 
  depending on the object and the task to be performed.
* Some work in grasp taxonomy: Cutkosky, Napier, Iberall (VF)
* Stansfield: Check out this guy! I could not access his 1991 IJRR Paper


Overview of Proposed Method
===========================

The grasp planner proposed is divided in 2 main parts:

1. Generate a set of starting grasp poses based on a primitive version of the
   object to grasp.
2. Test if the grasp is feasible. Evaluate (metric) how good the grasp is.


Algorithm Details
=================

Grasp Generation
----------------
Each grasp starting position consists of 3 components:

1. 3D palm position
2. 3D orientation (approach direction (2D) + thumb orientation)
3. Hand preshape

For the hand 3D position and orientation, the authors define these values
based on the primitive models of the objects (i.e. for spheres, boxes, cones,
pyramids).

Regarding hand preshape: Hand preshapes are initial joint configurations
that (at closing) are supposed to most likely result in high quality grasps 
of the object. Hand preshapes depends on the object to grasp.

Finally, the grasp starting positions are just generated by setting the hand
at each of the candidate starting pose (3D position + orientation) and setting
the fingers at the pregrasp shape. Next, the hand is brought closer to the object
in the approach direction (normal to the palm). Once the hand cannot move
anymore without colliding, the fingers are closed (this procedure might involve
backing off and approaching a small number of times in some cases)

Grasp Evaluation
----------------
The authors use the metric proposed by Ferrari and Canny to test the quality
of the grasp evaluated.
